Let's move on then to
testing your design concepts.
Now, if you happen to work on smaller
projects, especially if they've got,
you're creating a new website or maybe
doing a little bit brand, identity work,
and that kinda stuff,
you're gonna love this section, right?
If you work for a large organization
that's got design systems and
stuff like that, this is gonna
be a little bit less relevant,
the next section is gonna be more for you.
But if you live in a world where
you still produce design concepts,
right, design mock-ups, then I think
this is gonna be really valuable.
So you know those times, it hands
a little bit less now than it did.
But you've got a client and they wanna
see what the design is gonna look like,
and so
you tend to do a high fidelity mock up,
it's not interactive or
anything like that.
You just mock up a page, often
the homepage, or something like that,
that you show to the client to get them to
buy into the idea and all the rest of it.
Well, that is an amazing
opportunity to do a little bit of
lightweight testing that is just going
to make things so much easier for
you, right, and
cut through iteration hell, right?
When it's like, my logo bigger and
I don't like that color green,
and and fill up all the whitespace and
all the other stuff that people spew.
Get rid of all that,
replace it with a bit of testing.
And people tell me,
I swear to you if you try this,
you will have no iterations, right?
And nobody ever believes me when I say
this, and until you try it yourself,
you will not have iterations,
unless of course the testing turns out
that there's some fundamental problem.
But you will get design sign off so
much easier.
And in fact, you probably don't even
need to ask for designs sign off, right?
Anyway, okay, so
why are we testing design concepts?
I think I've almost oversold it already,
but let's kind of drive the point home.
First of all, of course,
if you test your design concepts,
you're gonna end up with a better product.
Testing significantly reduces the chance
of developing something that's not fit for
purpose, a brand identity, or whatever
else that's not fit for the purpose.
Second is,
it's gonna resolve disagreements, right?
Testing can ensure momentum, right?
And that's such a critical thing,
things so
often grind to a halt
with design concepts.
You mock up something,
someone doesn't like it, and so
it starts going around and
then they start suggesting things, right?
And so
you apply the thing that they suggest, and
then they don't like the suggestion.
But instead of saying no, that was
a bad idea, they then come up with
another suggestion that they think
might fix the first suggestion and
it turns into a nightmare.
So, it resolves all those
kinda disagreements and
it's gonna save you money, right?
You, especially if you're an external
person working with clients,
testing can identify issues early,
it's gonna reduce your costs,
it's just great, right?
So what are we aiming
to learn at this stage?
Cuz you think we've not
actually got a learning,
now we've just got a page, right?
A single page, high fidelity mock up,
I mean, for crying out loud,
what are we gonna learn from that?
Well, there's three
things that we can learn.
First, do people like it?
Cuz that is the big thing,
stakeholders go, don't like it.
It doesn't wow me,
whatever that means, I mean,
what you're supposed to do with that.
Those of you who are developers do
not know how lucky you are that
nobody cares about the quality
of your code, right?
Cuz it's true,
nobody understands your code, but
everybody thinks they know design, right?
And if it doesn't, nobody goes,
your code doesn't wow me,
I mean, what are you supposed
to do with that as a designer?
But anyway, so we're gonna establish,
do people actually like the design?
Secondly, do they get it?
Cuz that's another, I'm not sure
our messaging is clear enough, or
I don't think people are gonna understand.
What do you base that on?
Mr. stakeholder, your random opinion?
No, I showed it to my nephew
who didn't understand it.
Yeah, your nephew's five, of course
she doesn't understand it, but anyway,
I'm going off on a ramp.
Can you tell that this is a bit that
I'm particularly passionate about.
And then the third thing
is can they use it, right?
Do they know that you
can click on growth or
whatever random word that
the interface has got in?
So to test this, these three things,
we're gonna divide and conquer, right?
One of the big problems,
when you test a high resolution concept,
mock-up, is that stakeholders get
all muddled in their heads, right?
They reject a design that
is a perfectly good design,
cuz they don't like the color, right?
Or they reject a really striking branding
because the messaging is not right or
it all gets muddled.
So what we're gonna do is divide
the aesthetics from the usability.
We're gonna kinda test the two separately
through some really lightweight testing.
And this testing can be done so,
so quickly and
will make an enormous difference to
getting past the design mock up stage.
The first is we're gonna test
a wireframe version of the design.
And then we're also gonna test
a style tile, or mood board, or
whatever you want to call it, right?
So one is the usability, right?
And the other one is the aesthetics,
the color, the styling,
the typography, that kind of stuff, right?
And that means that we can separate
those two issues from one another and
it will just make everything go smoother.
So we're gonna start off
by testing the wireframe.
Now, these wireframes need to
be reasonable quality, right?
We can't just do blocky wireframes
where it's got no text in, or
anything like that.
It needs to be a bit more than that,
it needs to be able to show,
you have real text in and enough to be
able to understand the interface, right?
But it doesn't need to be perfect layout,
pixel perfect or anything like that.
A grayscale, basic wireframe,
does the job of what you think the page
that you're gonna end up mocking up is.
So that's that, and
then we've got the mood board as well.
Okay, so all of these tests that I'm gonna
propose can all be done using Lyssna,
and so there's a free tier of this,
so you can easily do it.
And, let me be clear,
you don't need to do all of these tests,
you just do the ones that are relevant,
right?
So for example, if you know there's gonna
be a big argument about branding and
aesthetics, then do
the aesthetics testing.
If you know people are gonna be really
worried about whether people understand
what's going on,
then do the comprehension test, and so on.
So, I'm not suggesting you
do all of these every time,
although you can do if you want to,
cuz they're so lightweight.
But yeah, again, do what you can.